and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth
show i'm delighted to be joined by mark
grindy today mark is the founder
and ceo at the uk bss group a leading
uk web hosting company mark a very well
welcome sir
how are you doing you're right not bad
yourself yeah good man looking forward
to chatting today
so um we're gonna be jumping in and
talking all about how everyone
all business owners all sales people can
get the most out of their website
and um i think it's gonna be a juicy
episode going to cover a lot of ground
in terms of what you need to think about
not only with web your website from a
technical perspective
and how you can provide the best
experience to your visitors
to to get those all important leads
conversions and sales
and also from a hosting perspective
which i'm sure you'll agree is something
that's often neglected
when um when businesses launch websites
right yeah
definitely but i think that's a lot of
it is because
they're concentrating on the business
and hosting is quite techy so they don't
always know
what they're looking for i know when i
first started i didn't have a clue about
half of it so
that's it man that's it so we get
provide as many tips as we can in terms
of how you can choose the right hosting
company and
what you need to think about depending
on what you want to get out of your site
and then we'll go on to discuss a bit
about how you've grown your business
and and a few tips you can provide on on
how everyone can market their website as
as we all know that's
probably the most important factor it's
all good having an awesome dancing
website
if no one can find it it's um it's not
too much good so first and foremost
when um when we're launching a new site
mark or if we've
we're looking to redesign our website
what are some key things that are
perhaps forgotten about
that you've dealt with over the years
that everyone needs to keep in the front
of their minds
i think obviously again it's probably
the main base hosting
to be fair it's the one thing that
everyone overlooks
so because a lot of people end up
wasting a lot of money on hosting they
don't need
or they don't spend enough and
and one of the things is if you you
could have the best coded website in the
world but if you've not got the hosting
that will balance out with it
and do it justice it's not going to get
anywhere
and but i think again one of the key
points is a lot of people
starting up tend to try and
cheap out a little bit and use website
builders or things like that and
for some businesses that's fine um
but it can hit you quite hard in the
long run um
i know for a fact that we have a lot of
clients that come
asking us what they can do to improve
rank and things like that
and the websites aren't that bad um
for the most part and they might look
really good
yeah but um they just
built like rubbish so okay
so i mean perhaps we can we can dive
into the hosting section in a bit
bit more detail um in a set yeah but
before we get to that i mean
i know before we hit record mark there's
a few things you mentioned about
making sure your site speeds up to
scratch and a few other things that you
mentioned that you've dealt with yeah
for clients that
perhaps have forgotten so when we're
building a website quite often we
profit we've got a deadline so maybe we
want to get it designed and built fast
so we can start driving people to it
perhaps our prospects or our existing
clients are saying look i really need to
see your site so i can get confidence in
what you do
um so what are some of the things that
people perhaps forget about when it
comes to their own site that you've
you've seen of getting better results
yes i think one of the the main issues
is that
like you said they're trying to rush it
out and
and if you rush it out again you're
going to run into problems
further down the line but um especially
when it comes to things like speed so
you
look and they don't plan so you need to
decide whether a html website is better
for you
or wordpress okay things like that so
um now obviously wordpress is quite
popular
and there's lots of hosting out there
for it
and so everyone sort of defaults we get
asked all the time about wordpress
and um but sometimes it's not relevant
if you just got
sort of a static site it's just for
people to find you and get information
yeah wordpress isn't always the best way
and
it brings security issues with it
and it can slow your sites quite a bit
depending on what plugins you've got
and so yeah it can cause a lot of issues
so a lot of it is that
they just don't prep enough um
and and the sort of the clunkier it is
so like wordpress can be brilliant or it
can be a nightmare it can be quite
clunky
and that can really slow your website
down um
and i know for a fact that we had
that issue on our site at one point
which you guys then
redid for us and um it's been a lot
better since and then we did a few more
optimizations and
someone else come in yeah i mean on that
point mark it's interesting i mean
it's always a tricky one to to know
which platform to
to build your website so if you've got
any tips on that front in terms of when
it comes to
perhaps you've done all the designs for
your website you're really happy with
the look and feel
the user interface but then when it
comes to choosing the technology like
you said you've got
different options whether it is
wordpress cms so wordpress is your admin
dashboard to manage your content
and look after your site on a day-to-day
should should every site be
built on wordpress in your opinion or
sometimes people consider other
technologies obviously wordpress is one
of the bigger ones out there
or would you say look do a bit of
research first and understand
who's going to be using your site and
what you need to get out of it
yeah i think we're again
like i'm not going to slate wordpress
because we use it
um for quite a lot of our stuff and
but if you don't need it i wouldn't use
it and because like i say it's
it just brings too many other issues
that you end up having to keep on top of
and a smaller business owner doesn't
want to have to deal with all of that
and i mean wordpress if you're going to
have an ecommerce site
wordpress with a website called like
elementor or something like that is
probably
ideal for you to get started um
but then there's loads of other options
so there's things like open cart that
you can use
um which is pretty good and not as heavy
and so they don't use as many resources
so
if you having an ecommerce site and
you're not needing to blog
um or put content out all the time then
i would probably
suggest going with something like open
cart
or maybe wordpress with with woocommerce
um but again it's
you just adding more stuff on top so it
can get a bit slower unless you've got
the right hosting
yeah that's it isn't it i mean with with
websites the trouble is if you start
loading up loads of plugins
it starts to slow down everything the
website gets pretty clunky
takes seconds and seconds to load which
obviously puts people off because no one
wants a slow loading website and they're
just going to jump straight to your
competitor
if they can't find the thing they want
straight away and i think that's the
thing so like they say that you
you lose more visitors so if you're
if you start taking longer to load than
three seconds then you're gonna start
losing
conversion straight away um and
and site speed is quite high up there on
google's algorithm now
it's one of the crucial bits um and you
can test that on
google developer tools or um
g-metrix and we use a combination of
both to find out where
our site's slower using the waterfall to
see where it
sort of cascades and where things are
holding it up
and and usually we find that html sites
perform better in general
and than wordpress so if you don't need
to be blogging and you don't need to be
adding loads of content regularly
then i would probably say go html and
less security issues quicker neater it's
easier to optimize
as well if you've got a good developer
and
yeah it's just much easier to be fair it
makes sense and to just to dive into
that in a bit more detail so
so html essentially means that your
website doesn't have a back end
it doesn't have an admin side or it
doesn't have what's called a cms or
content management system
yeah so essentially it's a lot more
lightweight because it's literally only
got a front end to it
which could be suitable if like mark
said if it's a more straightforward site
it just needs to be super fast
and it doesn't need that aspect of the
content management so
yeah that makes sense man are there any
other tips mark so if we're looking to
keep our
website nice and quick nice and fast so
everyone can get the information they
need straight away
which is more likely going to give us
that all important conversion or lead or
sell
are there any things we should think
about um or avoid
to ensure that our websites are
lightning fast and
i think obviously one of the problems
that people have is that
if they're built especially if they're
building it themselves they'll want it
everything
sort of all the bells and whistles they
want it looking really nice and some and
it might be a really nice looking site
but sometimes that can distract
someone from finding what they're
wanting to go for and
so i mean for an example i don't know if
i should use them but like
very if you go to very i find their
site quite distracting because they've
got so much
stuff where on their home page it's not
the nicest layout it's a bit there's a
bit too much there whereas if you go to
argos for example
i think they've got a pretty good setup
it's
there's enough content there and it
looks good but
it's slim enough that you can get to
where you want
a lot quicker and so i think that's
something to look at on an e-commerce
point of view
definitely but it can be used across
all sites you want enough white space
and you want
you don't want to fill it with images
because they'll slow it down as well
so good point yeah so it sounds like
getting a balance really making sure
you're giving
your visitors the key things that they
actually need
whereas not overwhelming them with all
this stuff that's one probably going to
clutter the website
and distract people away from your main
goal which if you're in b2b
business to business is probably to
generate an enquiry or a call or a lead
or if you would like to say an eq you
actually want to get people viewing the
products and
and purchasing adding to their cart and
getting those orders in whereas if
you've got all these distractions not
only does it clutter and confuse people
it also could slow the website down
because you've got too many
images too many things to load which is
going to slow down your website
okay yeah yeah that makes sense so
moving the only
thing i'm sorry i was going to say the
only other thing i'd probably suggest as
well that
we've known and we've looked at recently
that works quite well
is that if even if you have got a
if it's a small ecommerce site one of
the things that
we've sort of seen helps is maybe still
have the html front end for your shop
if you're not adding stuff regularly but
then maybe have your clunkier
back end on a different domain or a sub
domain and because then
clients can browse through really quick
and then
the checkout bit they always expect to
be a little bit slower anyway
so that can help sort of improve your
conversion as well
all right so just to dive into that in a
bit more depth so
essentially having two parts of the
website so
one one which is perhaps acts as the
front end of the website
and then yeah commerce element did you
say for example if we if we said
it was a web choice shop like
webchoice.com and then forward slash
um store and then that would be a
separate site is that what you mean
yeah so you'd have um so you could have
it at like store.webchoiceshop.com or
whatever
and for your shop side and then
obviously you just have your normal
domain
um for the main site in html because
then you've got the
it's a lot quicker and clients can
browse it quicker
and then your heavier slower end is
technically on a separate system or
separate file
separate folder um
so the clients get that speed
to start with which will help with the
conversion and and then it will load a
little bit slower
for the store but for the out of it but
that's fine because
they expect that to be a little bit
slower so
we found that that works quite well and
i think our
website that you did for our main site
is a pretty similar
principle to that um although we use
wordpress for the front end because
we're quite we've got quite a lot of
content and stuff that we have to add on
and update every day so
gotcha okay so moving forward let's say
we've got these things in place
we've got a website that loads nice and
quick it provides a great experience for
our visitors because there's no clutter
it's all clean it's easy to do what they
they want to do whether they want to
take action whether they want to learn
more
whether they want to request a quote or
a demo or for e-commerce it provides a
nice experience perhaps we've got the
e-commerce element on a sub-domain so
everything's working fast and it's easy
for them to get where they want
and make those purchases um once we've
got a website that we're happy with
that's going to work well
how do we go about considering hosting
and what are some things that we should
bear in mind depending on the type of
website we've got whether it's like a
simple
brochure information site or whether
it's something a bit more heavy
like you said like an e-commerce site
links to databases
and i think obviously one of the things
that you want to look at and one of the
things that
i know when i was first starting one of
the things i looked at for hosting
for my first business i started on the
first site the first thing i looked at
was
their stats and their time monitors
and for starters have they got something
where you can go and check if the
servers are up
and down time and because
you don't want to be having down time
that's if you start going down every
other week
and i had a host when i first started
that was down
every few days it was horrific um
it's just a nightmare it you just you
cut you're going to lose customers
and it's sort of the old adage of bad
news
travels quicker than good news um no
true i mean there's nothing more painful
is there when you when your website goes
down and you can't reach someone to chat
about it to get it back up and running
as soon as possible especially if you're
spending money on marketing it so yeah
perhaps running ads perhaps you're doing
seo perhaps you're doing social media
email work all these different channels
you're pumping
directing people to your site and if
it's not live you're losing
hundreds thousands depending on how much
you're spending
yeah and i think um one of the other
things to look at
is the support and
the supports crucial because if you even
if they're a really good host you have
an issue some house will only support
actual hosting issues um whereas
other house will help you with your site
a little bit i mean they won't do what a
developer would do for you
but they'll try and help you if there's
a problem with your site rather than
hosting
um so you want to look for that
and then yeah you just need to look for
uptime support how quickly they deal
with support
and i think one of the other things that
you want to look at
is how easy it is to move away from that
host as well
um because that's one thing that we have
a major issue with
with clients um
is the previous host gonna make it a
little bit awkward to migrate your site
somewhere else if it's not working
um i'd definitely say that's something
to look at
um you've got for example siteground
siteground an amazing company that
supports brilliant as much as i hate to
say that because they can
sort of a competition but um but they
are sitegrounded really good they've had
a great reputation for years but
recently they've changed their
systems so it only really works for them
so you can migrate
into them really easily but you can't
get away from them easily
it's really hard um to get it
back to normal hosting or what would
classes normal hosting
um and then again like wordify
wordify.com again brilliant their
support so quick and amazing
and they specialize just on wordpress
sites and you can migrate into them
so quick i mean we for one of our
projects recently we've got about 100
sites
ave with them just for redundancy to
keep it off our infrastructure
and um they got the hundreds over so
quick
it's ridiculous and but then we found
trying to get some of those sites back
to us is a lot harder
it's not as straightforward yeah no good
good points well raised i mean
understanding their customer support
it's like say if you've got issues you
can soon get hold of someone whether
it's live chat or email
or over the phone is really important
and then understanding that up times
it's making sure you've i mean i guess
99.9
is is what you want right in terms of
yeah yeah i mean
that's this 99.99 it's a bit of an iffy
subject
um for house and i don't really know
what i should say about that without
dobbing some companies in under the
sort of under the bus there but it
depends 99.99
you'd have to go through their terms and
see what they classes 99.99 or quiz
the sales stuff when you're going to go
to them um
because they all vary what they mean on
that um
some will include normal maintenance in
that
some won't so you've got to be careful
there ideally you want to be looking for
the 100
uptime guarantee really and i mean we
offer a night
we say on our site 99.99 for
a legal reason because you can't
guarantee 100. so that's what most of us
do
and also we'll probably give you some
money back if you if you drop below that
for but um yeah you've got to be careful
but really you should be looking for 100
overall when you look at the stats
from an uptime because it's all it
should all be cloud anyway now
you should have this should be
redundancies even using cpanel there
should be redundancies there so you
shouldn't have any downtime
really anyway nowadays okay well let's
i'll give you a quick scenario mark
let's say i'm a business owner i've just
um
built my my site i provide a b2b service
let's say
i offer software as a service so perhaps
i use this example all the time but i'm
a crm provider
i'm a competitor to hubspot so i'm
helping sales reps small to medium-sized
organizations organize their sales
pipeline
keep their leads in order or for all
these trigger events when people open
emails and all that good stuff so they
can they can essentially maximize their
sales through this software as a service
platform
just just sorted out a brand new shiny
website which is mainly information
and it's got plenty of call to actions
it's all geared around driving leads so
our sales team can follow up with them
and um yeah essentially demo our crm so
it's
nothing too advanced in terms of the
website mainly information based mainly
to
drive ads to it and generate leads so
fairly straightforward i guess so what
what kind of things should we be looking
up to apart from good customer service
um easy get out clause if we're not
happy with the company
what other things should we consider
when looking at the hosting side of
things that we've not yet
touched on um yes i think
again sort of going back to what i was
just saying the cloud infrastructure
is a must now and there's so many
hosting providers out there and i mean
it's unbelievable
how many hosts there are um
there is hundreds of thousands if not
more um
that are doing it so one of the things
i'd look out for is
is the company big because if they're
not big
the chances are they're reselling
someone else's services
so they could be reselling i don't know
say
i don't know house uk
as an example not the astronomers uk
company just
as a fake company but say house uk
was a website and they were saying oh
we've got this hosting this association
well if they're a reseller
and they're reselling godaddy stuff then
if they don't know
if they're probably not going to have
the knowledge that a bigger hosting
company would
okay so you're already going to struggle
there supports their support would be
really good but if and they could be
really helpful but if they've not got
the knowledge they've then got to go
back to that bigger
host for godaddy for example
and get their support to pass it on to
them
to then help them so that can slow
things down so you want to be careful
that they're not
a reseller to some degree
and it can just make things a lot more
complicated
um that's a definite thing and
yeah just keep an eye out for speed
support things like that
see if they they can give you benchmarks
or sites that are examples of speed
things like that
just so that they can show what they're
actually doing rather than just saying
it
yeah i think peace of mind okay that
makes sense all right moving the
conversation forward mark i know you've
grown a successful hosting company like
you say
so you've built it up pretty much from
scratch to to many many clients now
and turning over a decent amount of
revenue each and every year
so perhaps you could shed a bit of light
on how you've been able to build that up
yourself mark some of the marketing
strategies that you put in place
and perhaps any tips you could share for
our audience that are looking at to
build up their own business
yeah so i think i think when starting
any business a lot of it
is hard work and a lot of luck and
to be fair my first company that the
hosting companies come from
wasn't a hosting company to start with
it was a software company that
we did software for care homes and the
nhs
and so that helped um
and then obviously we needed service and
stuff so we went and hosting and that
was just
a better option for us and i think as
far as marketing goes
again it's a lot of hours um
most businesses i'm sure would agree
you're probably already working a
40-hour job
to get it started and then you're doing
another 40 hours on your own
if not more for your own job now and
so a lot of it is putting time in it's
trying to get out there getting on
sort of forums um so
trying to get your name out there
friends family i know everyone says that
but friends and family can help
um like i don't know if your
uncle's a builder or something see if
you can build him a website in our case
things like that and get it going that
way
um and then i suppose the normal stuff
it's
making sure you read if you're doing it
yourself
and you haven't got the budget make sure
that you're reading up on seo keeping up
to date with what google want
cover the bits that we've already
covered with the website side
and then google google ads and
not so good anymore they were a bit
easier to use i think
when i was starting i think yeah i hated
it a bit now
so you don't get as good of results all
the time
but they can do okay if you've got
someone that knows what they're doing
and yeah blog posts marketing just
content getting content out there but
it's got to be good
content and there's no point putting
content up for the sake of doing it
it has to be valuable to the person
that's reading it
makes sense yeah fair enough man so yeah
essentially to recap start with your
local network it sounds like especially
if you just started to start off with
whether it's your family whether it's
your contacts your friends bring those
on board
to yeah but start saying to those guys
try and squeeze them for money
and then what would you say are some of
the digital channels
that you've perhaps had the most success
with paid ads or is it something else
i think for for us for our industry
mostly paid ads
tend to help and obviously
on-site seo work has helped a bit which
again you guys helped with and did some
and when we read our site that's
definitely helped because
we're flying up the sort of the rankings
now
we're getting a lot higher now um and
what i call getting in with the big boys
but um yeah i think
um it's just a mixture of everything
paid
um paid ads and like i say
on on-site seo and maybe but
try and get back links good quality
backlinks
and that's again google are quite strict
on backlinks now
but it's something that can really help
and as long as you don't spam it you
need to make sure that you can get good
link backs
got it so it sounds like utilizing all
the channels that you can really so
understanding
where your customers are hanging out so
in your case you're hosting companies so
it makes sense probably people are
probably searching online for
this kind of service looking at paid ads
for for fast results
looking at the seo the search engine
optimization to get ranked on google
organically for the long term
and then looking any any quick wins in
between
um cool man and yeah i mean on on that
note just
just to wrap things up are there any
other further final notes that
you can help to to provide people with
when they are looking to to get their
website out there
and when they are looking to sort out
the hosting just to wrap things up
i think obviously we've covered quite a
bit on it already
to be fair without going in too much
depth because you could be here for
hours going into depth on the tacky bits
of it
but i think the most important bit is
planning um i think
that's you need to plan it and stage it
and it's the same with your marketing
even once your site's done you need to
have
a good plan um
banks and things like that want a
business plan for a reason and it's
easier to grow a company with a plan
and you need the plan for your site get
that done and have it all structured
because if you don't you're just going
to get lost and you're not really going
to know where to be
or where to start from because i know
i've been there you sort of sit there
twiddling your thumbs because you're not
really sure
what you should be doing when um so i
think that would be my
my main thing is just make sure you plan
everything
and have have it all have a good
timeline
don't don't rush it because it
it'll come back and bite you later i
think it's my
my advice for that nice one mark look
really appreciate you coming on dude
thanks very much for sharing your wisdom
on all things web
and hosting um if anyone wants to
connect with your good self
please let us know the best way for us
to learn from you and how we can get in
touch with you and
to be fair i don't really use social
media that much
and believe it or not but um so i think
it's probably
go to our website and to ukbss.com and
pop the ticket in or use the contact
page or a phone number and ask for me
and because i'm very much a hands-on
director i still
work day-to-day doing support and stuff
and helping clients anyway
and that is pretty much what my day
consists of now
is talking with clients to try and help
them out and figure out what's best for
them
and save them money in the long run
really
nice one mark if you could pick just one
digital marketing channel
to grow a business from what would be
your channel of choice sir
uh i would probably just because it
works for us go
with pay-per-click
yeah i think that this works for us yeah
makes sense man look mark really
appreciate you coming on thanks once
again sir
and uh yeah catch up soon
cool man and if you enjoyed the show be
sure to hit subscribe on your podcast
channel of choice
be it apple podcast spotify youtube
wherever the heck you get your podcast
search for business growth show and we
interview two business leaders each and
every week to provide you actual tips to
grow yourselves grow your business
and make best use of marketing and
thanks very much for tuning in